---
title: The theory of coconut  and peach
date: "2023-06-08"
description: "How to establish relationship between western and eastern worlds"
tags: Business, International, Culture
---

During my first gala dinner in France, I had a nice conversation with a couple from Paris. Everything went smoothly until I asked a completely innocent, in my opinion, question: “How did you meet?” My husband Eric (French) cast a withering glance at me. When we returned home, he explained: “In France we do not ask such questions to unfamiliar people. It's like asking what color their underpants are.”

This is a classic mistake. One of the first things that a person who finds himself in a new culture observes is that there are different rules regarding what information is appropriate or inappropriate to share with the first comers. However, understanding these rules is a prerequisite for success in another country with a different culture. If you continue to apply your customs and your norms of behavior, you quickly sit in a puddle.

You can prepare yourself by asking yourself what type the new culture belongs to - “peaches” or “coconuts”. This classification was invented by expert cultural experts Fons Trompenaars and Charles Hampden-Turner. In peach cultures like the USA or Brazil, people tend to be friendly (soft) with new acquaintances. They often smile at passers-by, quickly switch to an address by name, share information about themselves and ask personal questions to people they hardly know. ut after a short friendly conversation with a peach, you can suddenly stumble upon a hard bone, where a peach defends its true “I”, and the relationship abruptly ceases.

In coconut cultures, for example in Russia or in Germany, people are initially more closed to those with whom they are not connected by bonds of friendship. They rarely smile at passers-by, do not ask unfamiliar people about personal matters, and do not offer personal information to those with whom they are not close. But over time, when the coconut recognizes you, it becomes warmer and friendlier. And, although relationships are built slowly, they usually last much longer.

Coconuts can react differently to peaches. Some interpret benevolence as an offer of friendship, and when the other side does not continue the unintentionally promised relationship, they conclude that peaches are artificial and hypocritical. This is what a German did in Brazil, who said, puzzled: “People in Brazil are so friendly - they constantly invite me to their coffee. I gladly agree, but for the umpteenth time they forget to give me their address.” Igor Agapov, my Russian colleague, was similarly surprised when he felt a peach bone during his first trip to the United States. “During a nine-hour flight to New York, a stranger sat in a nearby chair. This American began to ask me very personal questions: whether it was the first time I was flying to the USA, who and what was left in Russia, whether I had left children so long before. He also shared various personal facts about himself. He said that he was playing the double bass, and complained about how hard it was for his wife to stay with the baby in Florida during his frequent absences.”

Agapov’s reaction was to begin to behave differently from what is customary in Russian culture. Thinking that he and his neighbor unexpectedly made friends in a short time, he told him his whole life. The ensuing sequel disappointed Igor: “I thought that after such“ contact,” we would continue to be friends. Imagine my surprise when the plane landed. At that moment, when I climbed over a piece of paper to write down my phone, my new friend got up and, waving his hand, said: “It was nice to meet you! Have a good trip!” And that’s it. I never saw him again. It seemed to me that all this was a dirty trick with the goal of forcing me to open up before him, since he had no intention of continuing his relationship.

Others immediately become suspicious. A Frenchwoman who came to visit my relatives in Minnesota was shocked by the “peachiness” of the Midwest. “The waiters are constantly smiling and asking me how things are going today! They don’t even know me. I feel all this awkward and suspicious. What do they want from me? My reaction is to hold onto my handbag more firmly.”

On the other hand, as a representative of peach culture, I was no less shocked when I arrived in Europe 14 years ago. New Polish, French, German or Russian colleagues met my lovely smiles and personal comments with a cold formality. I perceived their stone faces as a sign of arrogance, snobbery, and even hostility.

What to do if, like me, you are a peach that has fallen among coconuts? It is important to remain yourself. You should never pretend. So keep smiling and talk about yourself and your family as much as you want. Just don't ask others personal questions until they start talking on their own. And my coconut readers should take note: if your peach interlocutor asks you about life, shows family photos and even invites you to barbecue, do not consider this a prelude to deep friendship or a cover for some secret plan. Understand that this only indicates its different cultural norm, which you have to adapt to.
